README.md, before:

ABSTAIN(1) - General Commands Manual

# NAME

**abstain** - execute programs with reduced
pledge(2)
promises

# SYNOPSIS

**abstain&nbsp;\[**-le**]**
\[**-v**&nbsp;*vice\[,vice,...]*]
*binary*&nbsp;\[*flags*&nbsp;*...*]

# DESCRIPTION

The
**abstain**
utility executes
*binary*
with
*flags*
using
pledge(2)
*execpromises*.
By default, it will do so with all
*execpromises*
allowed.

Specify
*vices*
with
**-v**
in a comma-separated list.
They represent the exact same concept as
*promises*
in
pledge(2),
except that their effect is the reverse - they
prohibit
access to syscalls by removing the corresponding
pledge(2)
*promise*
from the
*execpromises*.

The
**-e**
flag adds the
'error'
*promise*
(which is not included by default)
so that a violation will lead to
`ENOSYS`
instead of
`SIGABRT`.

The
**-l**
flag prints all possible
*vices*
to the standard output.

The main use case that
**abstain**
is designed for is to gather empirical behavioral data on software, for specific types of syscalls, bulding on
pledge(2)
syscall groups. Ideally, this is combined with source code review and a study of kernel trace logs
(see
ktrace(1))
.

# EXAMPLES

Execute
*hello\_world*
with
*arguments*,
prohibiting access to the syscalls of the
'wpath'
and
'cpath'
groups
(see
pledge(2)
for details)
:

	$ abstain -v wpath,cpath ./hello_world arguments

# EXIT STATUS

As
**abstain**
calls
execve(2),
it has no process to return to. If any error occurs prior to or when calling
execve(2),
**abstain**
will return -1.

# SEE ALSO

pledge(2)
execve(2)
unveilro(1)

# AUTHORS

Thomas Frohwein &lt;[thfr@openbsd.org](mailto:thfr@openbsd.org)&gt;

# CAVEATS

Avoid relying on this to restrain your programs. The use of
pledge(2)
in the program is a superior option wherever feasible. The main use case may be experimental or educational.

Some system calls when allowed still have restrictions applied to them. Refer to
pledge(2)
for details.

Programs violating their
pledge(2)
restrictions by invoking syscalls from one of the
*vices*
are killed with uncatchable
`SIGABRT`.

When running with
**-e**,
the
'error'
*promise*
comes with risk that the program can enter inconsistent state, especially
setuid(2)
or
setgid(2)
programs.

OpenBSD 7.3 - September 4, 2023

Commit message:

update man page; thanks to brynet for input on this and the last commit also about using execvp(3)

README.md, after:

ABSTAIN(1) - General Commands Manual

# NAME

**abstain** - execute programs with reduced
pledge(2)
promises

# SYNOPSIS

**abstain&nbsp;\[**-le**]**
\[**-v**&nbsp;*vice\[,vice,...]*]
*binary*&nbsp;\[*arguments*&nbsp;*...*]

# DESCRIPTION

The
**abstain**
utility executes
*binary*
with
*arguments*
using
pledge(2)
*execpromises*.
By default, it will do so with all
*execpromises*
allowed.

Specify
*vices*
with
**-v**
in a comma-separated list.
They represent the exact same concept as
*promises*
in
pledge(2),
except that their effect is the reverse - they
prohibit
access to syscalls by removing the corresponding
pledge(2)
*promise*
from the
*execpromises*.

The
**-e**
flag adds the
'error'
*promise*
(which is not included by default)
so that a violation will lead to
`ENOSYS`
instead of
`SIGABRT`.

The
**-l**
flag prints all possible
*vices*
to the standard output.

The main use case that
**abstain**
is designed for is to gather empirical behavioral data on software, for specific types of syscalls, bulding on
pledge(2)
*promise*
sets. Ideally, this is combined with source code review and a study of kernel trace logs
(see
ktrace(1))
.

# EXAMPLES

Execute
*binary*
with
*arguments*,
prohibiting access to the syscalls of the
'wpath'
and
'cpath'
groups
(see
pledge(2)
for details)
:

	$ abstain -v wpath,cpath binary arguments

# EXIT STATUS

As
**abstain**
calls
execvp(3),
it has no process to return to. If any error occurs prior to or when calling
execvp(3),
**abstain**
will return -1.

# SEE ALSO

pledge(2)
execvp(3)
unveilro(1)

# AUTHORS

Thomas Frohwein &lt;[thfr@openbsd.org](mailto:thfr@openbsd.org)&gt;

# CAVEATS

Avoid relying on this to restrain your programs. The use of
pledge(2)
in the program is a superior option wherever feasible. The main use case may be experimental or educational.

Some system calls when allowed still have restrictions applied to them. Refer to
pledge(2)
for details.

Programs violating their
pledge(2)
restrictions by invoking syscalls from one of the
*vices*
are killed with uncatchable
`SIGABRT`.

When running with
**-e**,
the
'error'
*promise*
comes with risk that the program can enter inconsistent state, especially
setuid(2)
or
setgid(2)
programs.

OpenBSD 7.3 - September 4, 2023
